feat: add documentation for azure pg auth (#2639)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/gateway/azure-pg-authentication-with-azure-managed-identity.md

---
title: "Connect a {{site.base_gateway}} Azure PostgreSQL Server using Azure Managed Identity"
content_type: reference
layout: reference

breadcrumbs:
  - /gateway/
products:
    - gateway

tags:
  - azure

min_version:
    gateway: '3.12'

description: "Learn how to use Azure Managed Identity authentication to connect to the Azure PostgreSQL Server that you use for {{site.base_gateway}}"

related_resources:
  - text: "Install {{site.base_gateway}}"
    url: /gateway/install/
  - text: "Connect a {{site.base_gateway}} Azure PostgreSQL Server using Azure Service Principal"
    url: /gateway/azure-pg-authentication-with-azure-app-service-principal/
  - text: "{{site.base_gateway}} Amazon RDS database authentication with AWS IAM"
    url: /gateway/amazon-rds-authentication-with-aws-iam/

search_aliases:
  - Entra

works_on:
  - on-prem

faqs:
  - q: "How do I fix the `failed to initialize Azure client: no authentication mechanism worked for azure` error?"

>     a: |
>       Try run kong command with `--vv` parameter to show the debug log. You'll see the reason why the Azure authentication failed, for example the following log shows an error when authenticating with Managed Identity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a: |
      Try running the {{site.base_gateway}} command with the `--vv` parameter to show the debug log. You'll see the reason why the Azure authentication failed. For example the following log shows an error when authenticating with Managed Identity:
```

* Create an Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server user for your Managed Identity. To create a PostgreSQL user for your managed identity, you'll need to [connect to the Azure PostgreSQL server as Microsoft Entra administrator](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-configure-sign-in-azure-ad-authentication#authenticate-with-microsoft-entra-id). After successfully logging in to the Azure PostgreSQL server, run the following SQL command:
  ```
  postgres=> select * from pgaadauth_create_principal('my-managed-identity', false, false);

            pgaadauth_create_principal
  ------------------------------------------------
  Created role for "my-managed-identity"
  (1 row)
  ```

>   You'll also need to prepare the correct {{site.base_gateway}} database for the Azure PostgreSQL user. For example the following command creates a `kong` database and assigns permissions on the public schema to the managed identity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 You'll also need to prepare the correct {{site.base_gateway}} database for the Azure PostgreSQL user. For example the following command creates a `kong` database and assigns permissions on the public schema to the managed identity:
```

pg_azure_auth = on
pg_azure_client_id = 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 # the Client ID of the user assigned managed identity
```

To configure a read-only database using the [kong.conf file](/gateway/manage-kong-conf/), use the following example:

```bash
# Read-only database configuration
pg_ro_host = your-ro-server.postgres.database.azure.com
pg_ro_port = 5432
pg_ro_database = kong
pg_ro_user = my-managed-identity # needs to be the name of the managed identity

pg_ro_azure_auth = on
pg_ro_azure_client_id = 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 # the Client ID of the user assigned managed identity
```

{% endnavtab %}

{% endnavtabs %}

## Azure PostgreSQL Server configuration parameters

The following table describes the different configuration parameters you can set when configuring Azure Service Principal authentication to connect to the Azure PostgreSQL Server:

<!--vale off-->
{% kong_config_table %}
config:
  - name: pg_azure_auth
  - name: pg_azure_tenant_id
  - name: pg_azure_client_id
  - name: pg_azure_client_secret
  - name: pg_ro_azure_auth
  - name: pg_ro_azure_tenant_id
  - name: pg_ro_azure_client_id
  - name: pg_ro_azure_client_secret

> {% endkong_config_table %}

Reviewer: Same here with no description
